[Laughter]
[Music]
hello folks welcome back all right so
we're embarking on a new journey for
some of you and for those who have gone
through my old vintage ICT tutorials
these will probably be a little bit more
user friendly and concise I did have the
aim and goal in mind to make them as
short concise is dense as possible with
content but still not be so long in a
time window
I want the durations to be a little bit
more manageable so that was the goal for
this this round of tutorials we're gonna
be talking about what should new traders
study and practice ok so what's gonna be
covered in this module
ok the ICT concepts used in this one
there's gonna be the theory of liquidity
raids or stop runs introduction to
liquidity pools
how to locate high probability liquidity
pools introduction of the ICT order
block high accuracy entry points low
drawdown entry tactics high probability
targeting the benefits of scaling
profits and how to make money when you
are wrong all these concepts and ideas
are going to be used in practical
application but before we show you that
it's important to begin with a overview
okay so when we look at price action as
a new trader you're going to come into
the marketplace especially with Forex
because it's so exciting it's fast paced
it's it's a wonderful mark it's a
beautiful market it gives plenty of
opportunities you can be day trading it
you can scalp it you can position trade
it you can swing trade it it's
absolutely phenomenal I love it it's a
to me it's the best asset class today
however like you when I first got
engaged in the study of price action for
Forex I quickly found myself doing a lot
of things I should have been doing and
what's worse is I was an experienced
trader from other asset classes stocks
bonds commodities and I did trade the
currency markets by way of the futures
market so you would think having a
decade of or more really of experience
before getting involved in the foreign
exchange market that I would have had a
little bit better grasp on my emotions
in my excitement but that didn't happen
because it's 24-hour market it moved
around very liquid and it was like a
it's like a candy store for me so I did
a lot of things wrong and I've learned
over the years and these videos are
gonna help you avoid a lot of those
pitfalls so we're gonna cover an element
of price action that I think is
essential and if you have no previous
trading experience if you've not
opted your mind with the retail stuff
that is promoted in the industry you're
actually added advantage okay folks that
have gone through trading courses and
material are going to have some
hardships with this not just with this
teaching but all of the ones I'm going
to be teaching the constant theme is I
want you to think about the market place
completely opposite to what retail
teaches so retail is like Elliott Wave
supply and demand harmonic patterns
animal patterns all these things that
you put on your charts they're all
distractions all you need to know is the
open high low and close okay there's
four reference points that make up price
and we make charts based on those four
reference points now we have an element
of time that's a factor that won't be
talked about in this module but I will
talk about it in coming lessons but I
want you to think about when for
instance we're looking at this chart
here now this is - happens to be the day
of this recordings Eurodollar okay it's
a 15-minute time frame and I want you to
look at it and maybe some things jump
off maybe other things aren't so
apparent or obvious to you but I want to
kind of change your perspective on price
action and I want you to focus in on
areas in price action it doesn't make a
difference what time frame you look at
okay because price is fractal meaning
that the things that you can see on one
time frame they can be seen on the lower
time frame or the higher time frame as
well so it's a phenomena it's it repeats
itself okay the same type of formation
or setup can be seen on every time frame
so when we look at price or how I teach
my students to look at price I want them
to first understand what makes the
markets move okay without understanding
that your probabilities of being
successful in developing yourself in a
demo trade is highly unlikely and you
must
forget about becoming a live fun trader
if you can't do well in a demo you're
not going to do well on a live account
everything that I'm teaching here should
be done in the medium of a demo all of
my teaching is done in a demo and that's
just the best way to do it play in the
sandbox
it's risk free and you learn to develop
good habits this way so what do you do
with a demo account well before you even
put on trades I think that it you should
be studying price action like this okay
I want you to think where every one
else's trade idea would fail them now
think about that because when you read
books they tell you buy here sell here
your stops here try to aim for this
target ok so they're geared towards
getting you into a move and the stop
losses are pretty generic below an old
low above an old high I have started a
new wave of free membership followers
online and they have shared their
enthusiasm with the discovery of
something so simple but it evades most
traders even traders that have been
trading for a long period of time if you
look at periods in price action where
there are equal highs and equal lows
this is the easiest most obvious price
point to see in charts every time you
see that I want you to note that ok put
a small little trendline horizontal ok
and that's the only type of trendline I
like we're delineating previous points
where it made equal highs or slightly
higher or lower it doesn't make a
difference if it's exactly or if it's
off by one or two pips the general theme
is if it looks close enough then it's a
double top or a double bottom now retail
circles will teach that these are good
areas to trade off of as support
resistance institutional minded traders
think entirely different they know
what's sitting above there's equal highs
its traders by stops
and they know what's residing below the
equal lows traders cell stops so the way
institutional mindset is poised about
looking at price action they're looking
for counterparties they're looking for
the opposite side of their trade so when
everyone else is in the retail world
looking for indicators to give them buy
and sell points institutions are
actually thinking where are the orders
resting right now in the easiest way I
have learned to teach traders to start
with and there's other ways to do this
but as far as I'm gonna go in the free
content this is the only one I'm going
to teach and it's a very simple one in
literally a five-year-old can see it in
the chart so anytime you see a double
bottom or a double top put a small
little segment or a line above it or
below it delineating it and put a
notation what it is above double tops on
your chart make a small little notation
that it's by stops and below equal lows
cell stops and I want you to study do
not demo trade do not try to pick the
direction I want you to study it for one
full month do nothing else pick one or
two pairs literally go through and watch
how many times this phenomenon takes
place you can look at it on any
timeframe but I think a 15 minute time
frame is ideal because you'll see a lot
of scenarios to pan out now I traded two
markets today at the time this recording
I sold short the dollar cad and also so
sold short the euro dollar okay both
pairs generally do not move in the same
direction but I knew there was a strong
likelihood that the dollar cad would
sell off aggressively and therefore any
movement down in the euro dollar would
be a suspect decline and it would be
reaching for sell stops so that's gonna
be the context behind what you see me do
later on in this video that was a
recorded trade so as we're looking at
price I want you to take a look at this
area rate in here okay we have equal
lows and price has already went above an
old high and broke down and it's found
an area of
consolidation and this is the very
consolidation that I taught you how to
trade the New York set up for scalping I
want you to think about that if this is
a short where could you reasonably
expect to see price go well obviously we
would expect it to go lower but
targeting what specifically well we know
there's equal lows here and I like to
look at old lows and old highs and
project 10 to 20 pips beyond those
double bottoms and double tops so in
this double bottom folks see that as
support price comes down hits it here
retail minded traders are going to see
this rally up as a buy I do not want you
to think that I want you to think the
opposite I want you to think that this
whole scenario is just the market
getting ready to sink and go lower and
attack the sell stops that are below the
market place here for those traders that
have been fortunate enough to be long in
all this movement Road up to this high
but still did not take profits and have
open positions and their protective sell
stops are gonna be trailed up below
these lows so institutional minded
traders they're gonna see this as
liquidity the market will drop down 10
to 20 pips below equal lows and that in
itself you need to be determining
whether or not that's a trade that's
viable for you so what's a viable trade
I teach that my students as a new trader
should think about 20 to 30 pips per
week to start and that's a very very low
threshold objective it's easy to get
probably doesn't feel that way now as a
new trader but I promise you over a few
lessons you'll see how very easy it is
to find 20 or 30 pips over the course of
a week the problem is gonna be your
ability to refrain from trading once you
get it in your demo account you should
exercise patience and not do any more
weight to the next week because this
teaches two important and crucial
elements to longevity and trading number
one it teaches patience patience waiting
for the next set up now there's gonna be
a lot of gyrations in the chart that's
going to draw your attention you're
going to want to do
something with it there's nothing wrong
with paper trading it in other words
making notations and saying okay I would
hypothetically do this and
hypothetically do that but when you
practice practice with a demo account
doing one execution manage it to get 20
to 30 pips for the week and then stop
don't do any more demonstrating and it
also teaches discipline so you're
forcing yourself to follow rules
everyone else is taught in the books to
trade your edge keep doing the same
thing over again while your hands hot
play it hard
that's this foolish we're not gambling
we're looking for high probability
scenarios and setups so we have to
understand what that is so in in
addition to and a compliment to the high
probability scalping course I'm using
this first video to kind of like segue
into a little bit more detail I want you
to think about what makes price move
prices move to levels where orders
reside now orders reside above old highs
and below old lows so if we see double
toss and double bottoms our charts
should be noted like this notice there
is an absence of any kind of indicator
except for now the application of a
Fibonacci the Fibonacci is what I taught
to use to get the optimal trade entry
now what I'm going to show you here is
the classic ICT optimal trade entry
sixty two to seven times treatment level
get short look for an objective going
lower in here you can see how price did
have several opportunities to get short
at the sixty two percent tradesmen level
now finally expanded down hit the first
skilling objective which is the old low
seam here then target one is hit target
two is hit and then the symmetrical
price swing okay all of these levels are
in agreement with running below these
equal lows so it's not the fact that the
magic is done by the Fibonacci the
understanding is is there's traders that
have been going long here double bottom
is going to have trail
on their by positions ringing their cell
stops up so the markets going to come
back and grab those orders the market
does in fact collect all the cell stops
and then look at the nice vault higher
in price afterwards this big response
here is post sell stop rate in other
words after the cell stops have been
gathered up and tripped anybody that was
long now has been knocked out so if they
bought here or somewhere in this run up
here okay they have been taken out they
can't capitalize on anything going
higher but what happens if you don't
have the classic ICT optimal trade entry
on your chart so you miss it what do you
do well if you don't get into that
Fibonacci 62 to start chasing level as
that balance occurs here what are you
left to do do you just let the trade go
know over the years I've shared examples
of me getting into a trade and for those
individuals that aren't really
interested in learning from me they
they're quick to point and say well
that's chasing price and you're gonna
see just because we're not entering at
the 60 to the 700 tradesman level and
we're getting in somewhere down in here
that's not chasing price it's absolutely
not chasing price and I'll give you a
perfect example of it in this recording
but I want you to think about what can
we do as traders if we don't get this
area up here because I first taught that
this is where you should get in it the
problem is over the years I've been
inundated with emails stating that folks
don't have the courage to get in and
they want to get in but many times they
are too afraid to chase price because
they heard me preach don't chase price
don't chase price my definition of
chasing price would be once it breaks
below the low here then you are chasing
price you if it's gone too far
and you're too close to where the
targets would be to be able to see a
profit okay so what do we do well we can
focus in above that low in this area
right in here I'm gonna take you right
into that area with a little bit more
detail
so this is that section of price action
we just zoomed in and I want you to look
at this the up candle right in here
prior to this down move this is what I
refer to as a bearish ICT order block
now every up close candle and every down
close candle does not make a order block
okay there has to be a context or a
storyline behind why the price should be
doing what you anticipate it doing in
this case we think that the cell stops
below the marketplace are going to be
rated any time we see an up close candle
smart money will be in that candle
selling short but how can we use that
information well this very next candle
if you read the annotations on the chart
here price actually returns back to the
bearish order block low okay now what's
the low of this candle right here price
is returning back to it rate the time of
this candle is closed it hits that low
at that time that's a low risk entry
despite trading lower initially we can
wait for price to read trade back to the
order block to get in if we know what
we're looking for
so this read trade back to the bearish
order block is a low risk entry point
now if the short is valid this up close
candle will hold price below it until
the targets are reached on this case the
sell stops that we'd be talking below
the equal lows now notice also in here
as long as price is still above this low
this setup is staged properly to reach
for the liquidity pool below there's
equal lows I noted a moment ago in the
recording now as long as it's a boat
above this low right here the setup is
still valid but now I want you to think
about this formation right here this
candle already starts moving lower it
went down to this point here and then
started trading back up higher at that
moment while you're watching price right
in here that's when you time your entry
notice that the candles retracing right
back to the ICT bearish order blocks low
that's this up close candles low that is
exactly when your entries made at the
market institutional traders will short
during up moves now when price returns
back to these up close candles we can be
shorting it as well alright so now back
to our example here if we see that we
can find levels that have double tops
and double bottoms in the market we'll
want to go through them once this occurs
chances are the markets going to go the
opposite direction until it reaches
another area of liquidity so the markets
always gyrating back and forth back and
forth
seeking liquidity above the marketplace
and below the market place below these
equal lows there's a specific range that
I look for it's 10 to 20 pips sometimes
it can be as much as 30 pips but I give
a working range of 10 to 20 pips so
there's only two levels I'm looking for
it's not a zone exactly 20 pips below
that low at 118 84 it's one 1864 okay
really simple specific price levels not
zones not ambiguous areas to try to
figure out what's going on it's exact
it's a science we know exactly what
we're looking for but the problem is
what if we are expecting to sell short
at that bearish order block at the low
when it reads back to it does this offer
potential for us to take a well we have
an anticipated entry price at one 1891
we have an anticipated 20 pip sell stop
raid price at one 1864
so no words we're anticipating getting
in at one 1891 up here which is the low
of this up close candle and we already
know 20 pips below these lows the lowest
of the to equal lows is what I use 20s
below that that gives us a range low of
1 1864 so now we have 2 price points to
determine whether there's enough of a
range to make
profit you take to these two numbers and
you - them 91 from 64 gives us 27 pips
so we have anticipated range for
profitable movement of 27 pips
that is enough to take the scalp now
what I want you to do is I want you to
watch me use everything that's used here
because this is what was going on in my
mind before I actually executed and why
I took the trade okay folks we're gonna
be doing a short and I'm waiting for the
trade right back to the bottom of this
candle here set the traits to 1 1891
also short not in a hurry if it takes
off without me that's fine but I'm
trading the bear shoulder block in here
all right folks so I'll be looking for
that price at 118 91 as soon as it hits
it at market I will go short now my stop
has to be above the up close candle or
bearish order block but because of a
spread in this demo account it forces
you to be 10 pips away so I'm just gonna
elect to go with one 19154 my stop okay
it's about there i fingers on the
trigger
I'll have to do boom okay now I'm short
my stop is just below one 1915 and I'm
focusing my attention right below these
equal lows because I want to see a sell
stop raid so I'm gonna put my
delineation somewhere that would be in
terms of targeting and just in case I
had my limit order lower down to here
okay so if it goes down to that low and
it's not a stop run I have a limit order
to catch any accelerated price movement
but I'm really targeting that 20 pip run
so I have three Lots short I'm watching
price I want to see it trade below that
short term low we're flirting with and
then have a range expansion below there
so this recording is actually sped up
for time purposes but right now we're
retesting the bodies of the candles in
the previous short-term low and now I'm
gonna be looking for expansion on the
downside and it'll reach 10 pips and
hopefully 20 pips it's about two minutes
late from 8:30 New York time usually
it's a big volume increase for
volatility and I'm setting my order up
to collapse
two of the three standard Lots that I'm
short on Europe and I'm watching waiting
to see if price gets down to that second
level or 20 pips okay it's already
showing 10 pips up the decline as soon
as it hits that lower level line I'm
gonna collapse two of them there you go
and move my stop down to +1 now I'm in a
situation where I don't really care but
look at the entry points zero heat
no drawl down on that entry no drawl
down whatsoever it was not chasing price
so I have two of the three standard Lots
banked and now I'm watching price later
on and I'm gonna be looking to lower to
stop-loss and I may get lucky here and
see a run down to that limit order but
always keeping in mind that it started
to trade with the context of it being
just a stop run one sell stops so I want
to be mindful of how much the price
shows a willingness to stall or not want
to go lower and I'm watching price in
here to do that so I've collected a
small portion of the position also now
here's the second time taking something
off so a very small portion of the
original three standard Lots one that's
the small little fragment of the
position price does one more attempt to
break lower again now it's ten o'clock
so time has passed about a hour and a
half is going by and at this time I'm
watching price I do not want to see it
reverse or start to show a sign of
rejection stop has been lowered to now
I'm gonna be trying to lock in 20 pips
with my stop-loss
as it breaks down I will lower my stop
so that way if it does knock me out now
I have 20 pips locked in 25 pips is
locked in now we're in an area where it
could start to reverse it could fail to
get down to that other limit order so
I'm not gonna be able to move to stop
because the spread won't permit me to do
so so I have to either allow my stop to
be hit or my limit order to be taken or
I can collapse the trade now I was away
from the computer here at the time but
had I been there I would have been
collapsing right now well ultimately
price comes back up and it does in fact
stop me out eventually as you'll see
but I profited along the way taking out
small portions because you never know
you never know if it's gonna go down to
your objective and if you've taken the
risk on initially that risk needs to be
reduced to a point of which where it's
no longer impactful and there's my
stop-loss
being tagged and there is the fruits of
that short very very predictable in
terms of price action and not a bad
little scout for a run on stops the
context was there everything was
outlined and you can see the post trade
results ultimately later on you can see
as we showed in the beginning the video
your dog does vault up higher after
running those stops hopefully you found
this insightful until next time wish you
good luck and good trading
you